1. What is File function in python? What is keywords to create and write file. 

Ans : File function is used to handle files in Python. With file handling, we can perform wide range of opeations. To create a file in Python, open() method is used. parameter 'a' is used with open() method to write in the file. 

2. Explain Exception handling? What is an Error in Python? 

Ans : Exception handling is a process of responding to/handling an unexpected events while running any program. Error is a bug or falut in program. Errors can be syntax error or a run-time error. 

3. How many except statements can a try-except block have? Name Some built-in exception classes:

Ans : At leat one Except statement a try-except block can have.Some built-in exception classes are; Exception, MemoryError, NameError, TypeError, ValueError,ZeroDivisionError.

4. When will the else part of try-except-else be executed?
Ans : When no exception occurs, the else par of try-except-else can be executed. 

5.Can one block of except statements handle multiple exception?
Ans : Yes, one block of except statements in Python can handle multiple exceptions.

6. When is the finally block executed?
Ans:finally block is always executed after leaving the try statement. In case if some exception was not handled by except block.

7.What happens when „1‟== 1 is executed?
Ans : It will return False. As the == operator does not convert anything, its more like a function that looks at two inputs, checks if they are the same and returns a boolean. So, one is integer and the other is number.

8.How Do You Handle Exceptions With Try/Except/Finally In Python? Explain with coding snippets.
Ans : The try block will test the excepted error to occur. Except block will hand the error. And finally block will be executed always. finally block is used to deallocate the system resources. 

try:
       # Code.... 

except:
       # Handling of exception (if required)

finally:
      # Some code .....(always executed)     

9.What are oops concepts?
Ans : OOPS stads for Object Oriented programming is a Programming paradigm that uses objects and classes in programming. OOPS concepts are; 
Class
Objects
Polymorphism
Encapsulation
Inheritance
Data Abstraction

10. How to Define a Class in Python? What Is Self? Give An Example Of A Python Class
Ans : Class can be defined with a Class keyword and then :. SELF represents the instance of class. This keyword allows you to access variables, attributes, and methods of a defined class in Python. Example is

 Class sample:
	print("Class test")

10.Explain Inheritance in Python with an example? What is init? Or What Is A Constructor In Python?
Ans : Inheritance allows you to inherit the properties of a class, i.e., base class to another, i.e., derived class. For example; 
Class A
	print("class A")
# Inherited or Subclass
class B(A):
	print("class B")

Constructors are generally used for instantiating an object. In Python the __init__() method is called the constructor and is always called when an object is created.

def __init__(self):
    # body of the constructor

11. What is Instantiation in terms of OOP terminology? 
Ans: It is the processes of creating a new object for a class using a new keyword.

12. What is used to check whether an object o is an instance of class A?
Ans : isinstance() function is used to check whether an object o is an instance of class A. It returns True if the object is an instance of the class. Otherwise, it returns False.

13.What relationship is appropriate for Course and Faculty? 
Ans :It's Association.

14.What relationship is appropriate for Student and Person?
Ans: “is-a” or “kind of” relationship between Student and Person class. Saying that, Student is a kind of Person.


